BUILD.md, before:

# Compiling Instructions

## WINDOWS

Prerequisites

- [CUDA toolkit v10.1 or later](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads?)
- [CMake 3.12 or later](https://cmake.org/)
- [Sourcetree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com) or [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [QT 5.10 or later](https://www.qt.io/download)
- Update your graphics card driver

Build

1. Clone the [bitbucket repository](https://bitbucket.org/xromm/autoscoper-v2/src/BA_Playground/).
2. Run CMake and choose a source and the build folder for Autoscoper and click configure.
  1. On Windows choose a 64bit build of the Visual Studio version you have installed.
  2. Dependencies to tiff and glew will be installed automatically and the other dependencies should be found automatically.
  3. By default it will use CUDA.
  4. You receive an error for Qt5_DIR. Select the following path $QT_ROOT_PATH\msvc2017_64\lib\CMake\Qt5 (e.g., C:\Qt5\5.10.1\msvc2017_64\lib\cmake\Qt5).
3. Click configure again.
4. Click generate
5. Click open project and build in Visual Studio.
6. To install build the INSTALL project in VisualStudio. This will build Autoscoper and installs it in your build folder in the sub-folder install/bin/Debug or install/bin/Release depending on which build was performed.

NOTE: Debugging a CUDA program is not straightforward in Visual Studio, so you cannot do the debugging similar to other applications.

## LINUX / HPC SERVER

1. Clone the [bitbucket repository](https://bitbucket.org/xromm/autoscoper-v2/src/BA_Playground/).
2. Create a build folder in the autoscoper folder and run 'ccmake ../.' from the build folder (configure and generate)
3. Build using 'make' in the build folder.

NOTE 1 for HPC SERVERs: If you've received a "fatal error" for some of the autogenerated files, go to the "build/autoscoper/autoscoper_autogen" folder, and open moc_FUNCTION.cpp files. Rectify the path written in "Line 9" to fix the issue. This occurs if the HPC server has different ways of accessing a directory.

NOTE 2 for HPC SERVERs: You need to use VNC or another application that gives you a display access. Autoscoper will not run if your HPC server does not have display and GPU access.

## MAC OS - CUDA Only

1. Clone the [bitbucket repository](https://bitbucket.org/xromm/autoscoper-v2/src/BA_Playground/).
2. Create a build folder in the autoscoper folder, open CMake and use XCode as compiler.
3. When recieve an error, modify the fields:
  1. CMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES recommended to set to x86_64
  2. CMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET to 10.15 (or your mac_os version)
  3. If recieved an error for Qt5_DIR, search for (Qt5Config.cmake) on your hard drive and write its location in the field.
4. After generating the configured file, open XCode and compile the application

Commit message:

ENH: Implementation of SuperBuild
* Update and test of external libraries
  - Updated GLEW from 2.1.0 to 2.2.0
  - Updated LIBTIFF from 4.0.8 to 4.4.0
  - Both libraries were tested with CUDA and non-CUDA verisons of Autoscoper on Windows 11 Build 10.0.22000
* Consolidation of external projects into one cmake file for each
  project
* Files External_*.cmake where based off of Slicer/Slicer@a2d100f30
* CLI, for windows, compiling instructions to BUILD.md
* Autoscoper is now the prefix for all options
* Add URL_HASH to External_GLEW.cmake
* Fix configuration renaming Superbuild.cmake to SuperBuild.cmake

BUILD.md, after:

# Compiling Instructions

## WINDOWS

Prerequisites

- [CUDA toolkit v10.1 or later](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads?)
- [CMake 3.12 or later](https://cmake.org/)
- [Sourcetree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com) or [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [QT 5.10 or later](https://www.qt.io/download)
- Update your graphics card driver

GUI-Build

1. Clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/BrownBiomechanics/Autoscoper).
2. Run CMake and choose a source and the build folder for Autoscoper and click configure.
  1. On Windows choose a 64bit build of the Visual Studio version you have installed.
  2. Dependencies to tiff and glew will be installed automatically and the other dependencies should be found automatically.
  3. By default it will use CUDA.
  4. You receive an error for Qt5_DIR. Select the following path $QT_ROOT_PATH\msvc2017_64\lib\CMake\Qt5 (e.g., C:\Qt5\5.10.1\msvc2017_64\lib\cmake\Qt5).
3. Click configure again.
4. Click generate
5. Click open project and build in Visual Studio.
6. To install build the INSTALL project in VisualStudio. This will build Autoscoper and installs it in your build folder in the sub-folder install/bin/Debug or install/bin/Release depending on which build was performed.

NOTE: Debugging a CUDA program is not straightforward in Visual Studio, so you cannot do the debugging similar to other applications.

Cli-Build (Using Powershell)
1. Clone the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/BrownBiomechanics/Autoscoper).
2. Enter the repos directory
3. Make and enter a build directory `mkdir build` and `cd build`
4. Configure project `cmake .. `
5. Build external dependencies `cmake --build . `
6. Install project `cmake --build . --target install`
7. The autoscoper.exe will be in the folder build/install/bin/Debug or build/nstall/bin/Release depending on which build was performed.

## LINUX / HPC SERVER

1. Clone the [bitbucket repository](https://bitbucket.org/xromm/autoscoper-v2/src/BA_Playground/).
2. Create a build folder in the autoscoper folder and run 'ccmake ../.' from the build folder (configure and generate)
3. Build using 'make' in the build folder.

NOTE 1 for HPC SERVERs: If you've received a "fatal error" for some of the autogenerated files, go to the "build/autoscoper/autoscoper_autogen" folder, and open moc_FUNCTION.cpp files. Rectify the path written in "Line 9" to fix the issue. This occurs if the HPC server has different ways of accessing a directory.

NOTE 2 for HPC SERVERs: You need to use VNC or another application that gives you a display access. Autoscoper will not run if your HPC server does not have display and GPU access.

## MAC OS - CUDA Only

1. Clone the [bitbucket repository](https://bitbucket.org/xromm/autoscoper-v2/src/BA_Playground/).
2. Create a build folder in the autoscoper folder, open CMake and use XCode as compiler.
3. When recieve an error, modify the fields:
  1. CMAKE_OSX_ARCHITECTURES recommended to set to x86_64
  2. CMAKE_OSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET to 10.15 (or your mac_os version)
  3. If recieved an error for Qt5_DIR, search for (Qt5Config.cmake) on your hard drive and write its location in the field.
4. After generating the configured file, open XCode and compile the application
